---
layout: single
title:  "Welcome to Dae's Blog"
category: notes
tag: 
author_profile: false
search: false
sidebar:
    nav: "counts"
---

### Welcome to my blog!

Hi there, I’m a Computer Science student at Curtin University, passionate about learning, building, and sharing along the way.

This site is powered by **GitHub Pages** and styled using the **Minimal Mistakes** theme, created by **Michael Rose**. Built with Jekyll and Ruby, it offers a smooth and efficient blogging experience. You can check out the [Quick-Start Guide](https://mmistakes.github.io/minimal-mistakes/docs/quick-start-guide/).  

Big thanks to the author of Minimal Mistakes for creating such an accessible and thoughtfully designed theme. It made static site publishing feel approachable and even fun. 

I'd also like to acknowledge the helpful resources in this [YouTube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ACzFIAOsfpM), which made the process much easier. 

---

I hope this blog can serve as:  
- **A portfolio** of my projects and work.  
- **A repository** for quick notes and key takeaways from what I've learned.  
- **A diary**, capturing my thoughts and insights.  

It is a non-profit personal blog, but I will appropriately reference all my sources to maintain accuracy and integrity.

---

*Disclaimer:* 
*The content and notes shared on this blog are intended for educational and informational purposes only. They are mainly derived from lectures attended by the author while studying at Curtin University and reflect the author's personal understanding and interpretation. The materials do not represent official Curtin University course content, and neither the university nor the lecturers endorse or assume responsibility for any third-party resources, external links, or commentary included here. No copyright infringement is intended. This site is non-commercial and exists solely as a personal learning portfolio.*

---

Thank you for visiting😊  
Feel free to explore and enjoy!❤️
