---
layout: single
title:  "Reflections in 24th March 2025"
category: diary
tag: 
author_profile: false
search: false
sidebar:
    nav: "counts"
---

These are my thoughts these days.

As a final-year Computer Science student, I often think about what I can do in the future and what I truly want to achieve in life.

If I were only thinking about money just to survive, I would feel depressed about going to work every day. I believe that humans need a greater purpose to stay focused and motivated.

I can't predict the future, but I am happy with the choices I've made and the progress so far in my CS studies.

I agree with the idea that the Industrial Revolution broke barriers, freeing people from physical labour and significantly increasing efficiency. Now, the AI revolution is doing something similar, liberating people from knowledge-based, complex tasks by automating them.

In the future, human intelligence may shift toward asking the right questions rather than performing repetitive intellectual work.

I don't know which company or nation will lead this transformation, but I'm certain that whichever organization achieves it will dominate the world for the next few hundred years.

Recently, I've been applying for graduate roles in Australia starting in early 2026. Some companies require video interviews, and that process has made me reflect deeply on my future goals. I wanted to solidify my thoughts and write them down somewhere.

At some point in my life, I might find contentment, whether it's starting a family, enjoying a balanced work life, or even retiring early.

But right now, my goal is clear.
I want to keep learning, growing, and becoming a key contributor in the AI field to make a meaningful impact on society.

Something that aligns with this would be my ultimate goal.

Thanks to whoever's reading this!
